User Metering (#10789)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/deployment/general/subscription-management/user-metering/implementing-user-metering.md

Reviewer: I think this page makes big parts of the user_type page obsolete.
https://docs.mendix.com/developerportal/deploy/populate-user-type/

Assessing the latter page (as currently published):
- section 1 introduction --> can be replaced by short reference to user-metering page
- section 2 background --> this can and should be replkaced by a reference to section "Domain entities" on the "implementing user metering" page. The latter section is more extensive.
- section 3 is mostly replaced by the "implementing user metering page". E.g. it also covers the versioning info.
- section 3.3.2 originates from a time before we had the User Classification module. It can be added as a seperate page for customers that don't want to use the User Classification module.  In this case 3.3.2.1 can be left out, since that information is already provided in the "Domain entities" section in "Implementing user metering".

Maybe some other bits of the user_type page can be included in "Implementaing user metering" page - the intend of the "Imp User metering" page has been all along to make the user_type doc obsolete.

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/10789/commits/8a9f5acecbd7abf7866b6a0af8559aa97cc36d85

### IdP-Based User Classification

This method requires one of the following identity modules to be enabled: OIDC SSO, SCIM, or SAML. A key advantage of this approach is that it does not require any modifications to your existing app. Classification can begin immediately by setting a constant. However, because users are only classified when they log in, it may take some time before all end users are classified.

For more information, see the [IdP-Based User Classification](/developerportal/deploy/populate-user-type/#idp-based-user-classification) section of *Populate User Types*.

### Userrole-Based User Classification

The user-role-based user classification module classifies users by using the roles already defined in your app.  It can update all existing users in one run and works well if you already have separate roles for internal and external users. However, using this module requires upgrading your app to include the user classification module. For more information, refer to [User-Role-Based Classification](developerportal/deploy/populate-user-type/#user-role-based-user-classification).

> 

Reviewer: Let's add:

"Userrole-based user classification is the recommended approach. It encourages and leverages application design with distinct userrole definitions for external and internal users."

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/10789/commits/5d33f145f18e10c9a884b2444b46a23bcbf6a438

---
title: "Implementing User Metering"
url: /developerportal/deploy/implementing-user-metering/
weight: 30
description: "This document describes how to implement user metering."
---

## Introduction

> This document provides you with an overview of the user metering implimentation, including guidelines for unique user identification, how users are classified, and the process for deactivation of users. <!-- User metering provides complete visibility into the number and types of users accessing the application, ensuring compliance with the subscription agreement. You can see this data in the Usage Report of Control Center on the Mendix platform. --> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document provides you with an overview of the user metering implementation, including guidelines for unique user identification, how users are classified, and the process for deactivating users. <!-- User metering provides complete visibility into the number and types of users accessing the application, ensuring compliance with the subscription agreement. You can see this data in the Usage Report of Control Center on the Mendix platform. --> 
```

    * Recommended Identifier: User's Email Address – Mendix strongly recommends storing the user's email address in `UserCommons.namedUserIdentifier.value`. This is typically a stable and globally unique identifier that users are familiar with. An email address is personal information. The Mendix platform, therefore, collects hashed values of the user identifier to enhance privacy. If you have specific privacy concerns, consult the [data processing agreement](https://www.siemens.com/en-us/company/compliance/data-privacy/data-privacy-terms/) you have with Siemens.

    * Alternative Identifiers: If using email addresses is not feasible or desired for your organization, you must establish a clear guideline on what user identifier your company will consistently use for cross-app user identification.

    * Handling Case Sensitivity: When using email addresses or other text-based identifiers, always store these values in lowercase to prevent metering issues caused by case sensitivity. The `system.user.name` attribute is case-sensitive by design. Mendix's standard SAML, OIDC SSO, and SCIM modules already apply this for email claims received from Identity Providers (IdPs).

> 3. Address pairwise identifiers (for example, OIDC `sub` claim): Some identity providers, such as Microsoft Entra ID, generate "pairwise" identifiers (for example, Entra ID's `sub` claim). These identifiers are unique for each application for the same user. This is designed to prevent correlation across different service providers. However, you are using this technical identifier as the global unique identifier for user metering, it can lead to incorrect multi-app metering within your portfolio. When using the OIDC SSO module with Microsoft Entra ID, you can use the `oid` claim instead of the `sub` claim as the global unique identifier. The `oid` claim contains the Entra ID user object ID and remains consistent for the same user across all applications. Alternatively, if you follow the recommended approach of using the user’s email address as the global unique identifier for user metering, pairwise identifiers will not impact your metering accuracy.

Reviewer 2: I suggest being consistent with quotation marks for "pairwise" - perhaps not use them at all?

1. `User`: Every Mendix app has a system module containing an entity `User`.

>     * `system.user.name`: This field is used to identify users, unless a `UserCommons.namedUserIdentifier.value` is available for the same user.

Reviewer 3: @JaapF @Karuna-Mendix 
`UserCommons.namedUserIdentifier.value`
should we refer to this attricbute since this is not yet supported by the Metering sidecar and the metering stack overall?

Author: Keeping it at a moment, based on Jaap's previous comment.
